Hi Jack,

The probate is still moving along. Below is a status list for your information:

Creditors: As you may know, the creditor claims period was up on/around December 8, 2023 and as of January 8, 2024, we have been in the creditor claims resolution phase of the process which ends Febuary 22, 2024. All claims must be paid by then. We recently received the Satisfaction and Release of Claim on the Claim filed by American Express for $106.26, which we filed on January 10, 2024. The Truist Bank Claim is still outstanding. Have you made the payment to Truist? If so, have they sent you a Satisfaction and Release of Claim? Please forward to us that was sent to you so we can file it. If not, and payment was made, let us know if you would like us to contact them on this. There were no other claims filed.
Statement Regarding Creditors: The Statement Regarding Creditors was due by January 8, 2024, which we filed on January 4, 2024.
Safe Deposit Box Inventory: We filed the Notice of Filing Safe Deposit Box Inventory with the Safe Deposit Box Inventories and served copies of those on the beneficiaries, as required. We also filed the Certificate of Service to inform the court that service on the beneficiaries have been made. Please confirm that the contents have been removed and the accounts/boxes have been closed. We need to do this by COB March 2, 2024.
Homestead Property: We will need to file the Petition to Determine Homestead Status of Real Property. However, due to the title issue, we have not moved forward with this because the attorneys are currently working with the title company on what they require to clear title. Once this has been taken care of, we can move this along. The Order Determining Homestead Status, once signed, will be the deed to the property. We will keep you apprised of any updates on this.

The filing of the Statement Regarding Creditors brings us into what is referred to as the last phase of the probate process wherein distribution and closing the estate occurs if everything is in order and there are no outstanding matters up to this point. Once all creditor claims are resolved, the real property title issue has been fixed, the homestead order signed, any taxes taken care of, all the proceeds from bank accounts received, etc., we can begin the closing process.

We previously asked if your siblings would be willing to sign Full Waivers and you informed us that they are, which will shorten the closing process. To accomplish this, we will prepare the Full Waivers and send to the beneficiaries for signature, then file those, along with the Petition for Discharge (we will send to you to sign at the appropriate time) and file those. We will touch base with you when we are in a position to move forward with wrapping things up and having you discharged as Personal Representative.

In the meantime, Bob wants to know if you have you closed all the accounts and deposited the funds into the estate account? Can you tell us how much income and/or interest has been earned so far on the account proceeds? Have you taken care of the final 1040 income tax return?

If you have any other questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.


Sincerely,
Susan Brode